### 06/10/2024
- ``D2.0|Creation of the file and sections:`` Introduction, Project (GitHub), Milanote,  
Task Assignment, Timeline, and Task List.  
**Time lapsed: 06:30:50**
---
### 07/10/2024
- ``(D)Process/README|Creation of the file in (D)Process folder, table of contents and binnacle linked.``  
**Time lapsed: 00:19:11**
- ``D3.0|Creation of the file metric and contributions.``  
**Time lapsed: 00:00:45**
- ``D2.0|Creation of de issues/solutions section, adition of the start and end dates.``  
**Time lapsed: 01:31:30**
- `D1.0 | Modification of the Introduction`
  - The section `Tasks to be completed` is removed.
  - The section `Roles and Responsibilities` is added.
  - The section `Schedule` is removed.
  - The section `WorkFlow` is reworked:
     - The section `Iterations` is added.
     - The section `Protocols` is modified.
     - The section `Rules` is modified and nested.
     - The section `Naming` is added, and rules that fit this section are moved accordingly.
     - The section `Meetings` is updated, with changes to the introductory explanation and the addition of potential meeting dates.
     - The section `Logs` is modified, with the introductory explanation removed and replaced by a list of rules and guidelines for log documentation.
     - The section `Rules and acceptable nomenclatures for the repository` is removed, and its points are redistributed into the sections on naming conventions and general rules.
     - The subsection `Rules` within the section `Branch Creation` is renamed to `Branch Rules` for consistency.
  - The section `Disclaimer` is removed.
    
  **Time lapsed: 02:34:26**

---
>Written by: ``TM-01``